## Object-Level Access Control
An Access Control system should be at the core of any web application since it can affect its entire design and structure. To properly control each area of the web application, its design has to support the segmentation of roles and permissions in a centralized manner.

User roles and permissions are a vital part of any access control system, which is fully realized in a Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) system. To avoid exploiting IDOR vulnerabilities, we must map the RBAC to all objects and resources. The back-end server can allow or deny every request, depending on whether the requester's role has enough privileges to access the object or the resource.
## Object References
While the core issue with IDOR lies in broken access control, having access to direct references to objects makes it possible to enumerate and exploit these vulnerabilities. Of course, a direct references can still be use, but only if a solid access control system is implemented.

Even after building a solid access control system, we should never use object references in clear text or simple patterns (e.g. `uid=1`). We should always use strong and unique references, like salted hashes or `UUID`'s. For example, we can use `UUID V4` to generate a strongly randomized id for any element, which looks something like (`89c9b29b-d19f-4515-b2dd-abb6e693eb20`).

Finally, we must note that using `UUID`s may let IDOR vulnerabilities go undetected since it makes it more challenging to test for IDOR vulnerabilities. This is why strong object referencing is always the second step after implementing a strong access control system. Furthermore, some of the techniques we learned in this module would work even with unique references if the access control system is broken, like repeating one user's request with another user's session