Many SSRF vulnerabilities are easy to find, because the application's normal traffic involves request parameters containing full URLs. Other examples of SSRF are harder to locate
## Partial URLs in Request
Sometimes, an application places only a hostname or part of a URL path into request parameters. The value is then incorporated into a full URL via server-side, potentially by a hardcoded URL into a variable in the codebase. If the value is easily recognized as a hostname or a URL path, the attack surface might be obvious. However, exploitability as full SSRF might be limited as we do not control the entire URL that gets requested.
## URLs within data formats
Some applications transmit data in formats with a specification that allows the inclusion of URLs which might get requested by the data format parser. An example of this is the XML data format, which is widely used by applications needing to transmit structure data from client to the server. When an application accepts data in XML format and parses it, it might be vulnerable to [XXE Injection](obsidian://open?vault=security-notes&file=Offensive%20Security%2FWeb%20Application%20Security%2FServer-side%20Vulnerabilities%2FXXE%20Injection%2FIntroduction).
## SSRF via the Referer Header
Some applications uses server-side analytics software to track visitors. This software often uses the `Referer` HTTP Header to track incoming links. Often, this software visits any third-party URLs that appear in the `Referer` HTTP header, which results as a potential attack surface for SSRF vulnerabilities. This can be exploited by [out-of-band techniques](obsidian://open?vault=security-notes&file=Offensive%20Security%2FWeb%20Application%20Security%2FServer-side%20Vulnerabilities%2FServer-side%20Request%20Forgery%2FBlind%20SSRF%20Vulnerabilities%2FBlind%20SSRF%20with%20Out-of-Band%20Detection).